# How Modern and Innovative Czech Museums Are? -- Results of a Quantitative Research

### Author
Mgr. Nina Wančová, Doctoral student at the Institute of Information Science and Librarianship, Faculty of Arts, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic, [nina@wvi.cz](mailto:nina@wvi.cz)

## Abstract

**Background:** Museums, as a part of the information infrastructure,
play an important role in the society. Nowadays, museums have to
reconsider their approach to visitors in order to prosper and to remain
relevant. Therefore museums need to innovate. With increasing frequency,
new media, other technologies and various participation strategies are
used for building information environment and functional communities
around the museums.

**Aims and methods**: This article's objective was to examine how Czech
museums accommodate their visitors' needs represented by their
communication types. Based on psychological, biological and
neuro-linguistic theories four communication types (**H**aptic-social,
**I**ntellectual, **V**isual, **A**uditive) were linked with
presentation techniques used in exhibitions -- such as typical displays
and accompanying programs.

We used the data from a questionnaire survey conducted in 2015. The
questionnaire included thirteen questions, we used two of these for this
article; the questions regarding the types of display and the
accompanying programs. In total, 203 Czech museums responded. According
to the official statistics there were 486 museums in 2015. We thus
surveyed almost 42 % of Czech museums.

**Results**: We found out that Czech museums' displays and accompanying
programs are most suitable for the **I**ntellectual type (31.3%) and the
**V**isual type (32.3%). The displays and accompanying programs are less
suitable for the **H**aptic-social type (17.6%) and the **A**uditive
type (18.8%). The results regarding the innovation status of the museums
were not affected by the size of the museums in question.

**Conclusion**: The work sets a baseline for monitoring the level of
innovation in Czech museums. We identified the need to consider both
by-whom and for-whom the displays and activities are created. Also,
possibilities to better fulfil the museums' function lie in better
accommodating of the Haptic-social type.

### Keywords:
Museum Innovation, Exhibition Design, Accompanying programs, Individual Communication Types

## Background and Purpose

Museums are important for the society. They help people to understand
the world around them, provide new experience through participation in
different activities, and allow to explore new topics. They present the
world which had disappeared centuries ago but is still present in our
contemporary ways of thinking. Museums also prepare people for the
future (Tanner et al., 2005). Fulfilling these functions requires a
long-term strategy, consisting of many activities. Nevertheless, an
universal way to fulfill museums' diverse functions does not exist. Each
institution must find its own specific role, vision, purpose and a way
to be relevant for the specific audience.

Museums' main and most visible communication platform are the
exhibitions. Furthermore, the accompanying programs are supposed to
cover specific or advanced topics for diverse audience, ranging from
laymen to experts. Visitors like to be in the middle of an action and
want to absorb meaningful content prepared to meet their individual
needs and preferences (Simon, 2010). Therefore, the unique learning
potential is the object based learning (Vayne, 2012), which can be
manifested through accompanying programs.

The history of museums, in other words the history of systematic object
collection, begun about 3 000 years B.C. in the Ancient Egypt. Over
time, the phenomenon of collecting has changed and passed several
stages. In the 19^th^ century what we perceive as a modern museum was
born (Holman, 2010). The characteristic trait of the modern museums was
the focus on the objects themselves, and on the scientific and
systematic development of the collection.

The last few decades of museology show two fundamental shifts. The first
of these turned attention from the object to the observer. Consequently,
the exhibitions started to be *for someone* not only *about something,*
and museums started to be visitor-centered (Polly and Janet, 2013). The
implementation of the idea of visitor-centered museums gradually
resulted in the second shift. The visitor has transformed into a
collaborator, and as a result the visit is associated with ideas of
*dialogue, partnership, equality, openness, interpretation* etc. This
change requires re-definition of museums' essential characteristics,
such as their expert authoritative nature (Simon, 2010). This entails
innovation. Furthermore, contemporary museums also compete with other
leisure activities, which exerts economic pressure to develop engaging
activities (Camareroa et al., 2014). Innovation is also needed in order
to attract visitors or keep them interested.

### Innovation in Museums

There are various ways of applying innovation in contemporary museums.
Some museums started to innovate the exhibitions by engaging multimedia,
technological displays and interactive activities. However, others
returned to conventional displays (Sklenář et al., 2017) in order to
highlight the traditional purpose of museums -- observation of authentic
objects (Midgley, Henderson, 2005). According to Camarero et al. (2014)
developments in museums are linked with the "economy of experience"
where experience is defined as "memorable events that engage each
customer in an inherently personal way". Personal engagement puts great
demands on the museum and results in the necessity to innovate.

Innovation in museums can be divided into two categories. First, the
innovation associated with exhibition design. Innovative designs include
diverse displays and accompanying activities used in order to develop a
long-term relationship with visitors, who return frequently, find
something new during each visit and are offered opportunities for
personal growth. The second type is the innovation in the organizational
procedures, management, leadership and interaction with people (Polly
and Janet, 2013). Irrespective of the innovation, the museum needs to
consider the visitors' communication style in order to communicate
properly. Otherwise it is not possible to create the information
environment described by Camarero et al. (2014).

### Communication Types

Communication types play an important role in many fields, such as
business, art, marketing, or medical services. They are also important
for museums. Theories of communication types have their foundation in
psychology, pedagogy and also in neuro-biology. The theories built on
the idea that we get information through all of our senses and that we
code, execute and combine information in our minds in way based on a
unique pattern of thinking (Knight, 2009). The scholars provide multiple
ways of dividing individuals into communication types. Neuro-linguists,
like Knight, divide people into three main categories - visual, auditive
and emotional. On the other hand, Vester (1999) defined four or five
primary communication types: a verbal, haptic, visual, auditive and
possibly communicative type.

Using the methods of addressing the individual communication types is
important in school or other places of learning, such as museums.
Consequently, the employees of museums should consider the needs of the
individual communication types and exhibitions should be presented
differently. Besides, other aspects like the subject, environment and
current emotional state are also important for learning. However,
according to Vester we need to ask if our learning environments are
designed for different communication types.

### Purpose

Consequently, the aim of this study was to analyze how displays and
accompanying programs in Czech museums respond to diverse communication
types. In order to address this question, based on Vester (1999), Knight
(2009) and knowledge about museums, four communication types were
defined: 1. **H**aptic-social type 2. **I**ntellectual type 3.
**V**isual type 4. **A**uditive type (see the definitions below).

## Methods

### The Context of the Czech Republic

This paper describes the situation of Czech museums in 2015. Current
state of Czech museums has its roots in the political and socio-economic
development of the 20^th^ century. In 1946 there were about 360 museums
with approximately 4 millions of specimens. During the 1950s many
museums were affected by the Communist Party propaganda and historical
facts were falsified. During the period of "Normalisation" (1968-1980)
after occupation by Russian army, Czech museums begun to stay behind the
European scene, especially from technical and material point of view and
in providing services to the visitors. Meanwhile, the number of objects
increased to about 60 millions in 1989, which is 15 times more than in
1946. After the fall of the Communist regime in 1989, the Czech museums
started to deal with the heritage of previous decades and to form new
attitudes in a democratic society (Žalman, 2002).

### Survey Methodology

We used an online quantitative survey
([https://goo.gl/3auEyj](https://goo.gl/3auEyj)), released
on 6^th^ June 2015. The museums were invited to participate via e-mail.
The email addresses were taken from the list available on the website of
Czech Association of Museums and Galleries
([http://www.cz-museums.cz/adresar/](http://www.cz-museums.cz/adresar/)).
The list consists of about 800 contacts but only 500 of these belong to
museums. The remaining contacts belong to other institutions: monuments,
zoos, information centers, or university departments. Initially, 109
completed surveys were received. However, the aim was to receive at
least 150 responses. Therefore, reminders were sent out in November
2015. The surveys should have been filled by the employees responsible
for the exhibition.

The questionnaire consisted of 13 questions, five questions about the
institution (number of employees, the main category of visitors etc.).
The rest was focused on exhibitions, accompanying programs and online
communication. Questions 1 to 4 were used for this purpose. Question one
asked about the types of objects and displays. Question four focused on
the types of accompanying activities. The data were anonymized and
analyses programmed in Python.

### Displays and Accompanying Programs in Relation to Communication Styles

We linked each type of display or accompanying program with
communication style(s) it targets. Each display and activity could be
suitable for several communication types and was based on contemporary
practices in museums. Classification and definition of each
communication type follow.

1. **H**aptic-social type: learns best by doing things,
	needs to touch, feel and become deeply involved in the activity. Needs
	enough time for practical testing and for appreciating the sensation.
	Likes to share knowledge, cooperate and learn from other people. Needs
	to feel accepted by others. The atmosphere of the learning session and
	sense of safety is extremely important for them.

	Museums displays and activities for the **H** type:
	+ Music: Adds atmosphere, acts on emotions.
	+ 3D objects: Hands-on activities allow for sensory experiences.
	+ Visit based on a narrative story with main character: Visitors can identify with and experience the topic through the character.
	+ Games: co-operative games in particular fulfill the social needs.
	+ Workshops: Allow for social engagement and involvement in the activity.
	+ Family programs: Opportunity to share intergenerational experience and "be together".

2. **I**ntellectual type: Has well developed abstract and
	conceptual thinking. Can concentrate for long time (unlike the other
	types). Absorbs information presented in logical structures, such as
	charts, numbers, tables. Is good in analyzing texts, likes specific
	information. Likes identifying how particular parts are connected in
	logical way. Learns well independently, without a partner.

	Museums displays and activities for the **I** type:
	+ Information panels: Panels include text, charts and structured information.
	+ Handed-out texts: Structured information and facts.
	+ Visualization: Often presents logical or chronological data.
	+ Comics: Stories divided into parts with logical order and detailed information.
	+ Touch screens: Allow independent learning, usually contain text, pictures, and detailed information.
	+ Games: quizzes and logical games that can be played individually.
	+ Lectures and discussion: Lectures are structured and presented by an expert. Discussions engage abstract thinking.
	+ Working sheets: Frequently contain logical steps and allow analytic exploration of the topic.

3. **V**isual type: Thinks in images, likes an image
	overview of the topic. Details can be too disturbing for them. Thinks
	fast and creates an image in their head. Is very creative but may make a
	false image of reality if not provided with good input information.
	Likes different colours, underlining, or different fonts for each part
	of text or information, and dynamic, expressive exposure to information.
	Is not particularly patient, needs engaging activities.

	Museums displays and activities for the **V** type:
	+ Information panels: if they contain images and charts.
	+ Video: provides a visual image of the situation.
	+ Visualisation: Ideal for this type, especially if visually engaging.
	+ Comics: Information is provided by pictures.
	+ Touch screens: Provide images, are dynamic and engaging.
	+ 3D objects: Provide overview and visual examination of the topic.
	+ Videomapping: Immersive display with imaginative pictures.
	+ Working sheets: Can be graphically rich and engaging, dynamic activity.
	+ Authentic objects: Are provided for visual examination.

4. **A**uditive type: Prefers audio information sources.
	Does not need to make notes; easily remembers the heard information. The
	**A** types are able listen longer than the other types and they also
	like speaking. Doing other things while listening is disturbing for them
	and results in worse recalling of information. The noise level is
	important for the **A** type. They usually need quiet environment or
	music of their choice.

	Museums displays and activities for the **A** type:
	+ Audio: Spoken commentary.
	+ Music: Allows engagement of the auditory system.
	+ Video: Provides information in speech.
	+ Lecture and discussion: Give opportunity to listen and speak.

## Results

After removing the duplicates, the sample included responses of 203
museums. In order to examine whether the research is representative, the
sample was compared with official statistics of the National Information
and Consulting Centre for Culture (NIPOS). We chose the number of
employees as the factor of comparison because human resources are
crucial for the institution's management. Larger institutions are more
likely to have an innovation, communication or educational specialist
and are thus more likely to include displays and activities for diverse
communication types. We divided the institutions into small (1-10
employees), medium (11-25 employees) and large institutions (>26).

According to the NIPOS statistics, there were 486 museums in 2015
(NIPOS, 2016). Our sample is therefore quite representative (Chart 1).
In both samples 65 % of the museums are small. In the NIPOS sample
medium museums constitute 16 %, as opposed to the 17,3 % in our sample,
and large museums constitute 18,9 % as opposed to the 17,7 % in our
sample. The major target group of visitors in all the museums were
school groups and tourists.

![Distribution of employee count in museums](figures/chart1.png)

The respondents could select multiple options in their answers. Thus,
they marked all the types of displays and accompanying programs used.
All the reported types were counted, including the authentic objects,
supplemental displays and events. We presumed that an ideal museum would
equally respect all the communication types and would have 25% of
displays and activities for each of the four types. Our examination
(Chart 2) showed that Czech museum's displays and accompanying programs
are most suitable for the **I**ntellectual type (31.3%) and the
**V**isual type (32.3%). The **H**aptic-social type (17.6%) and the
**A**uditive type (18.8%) are less addressed by the displays and
accompanying programs. We also examined the distribution in a subset of
museums according to the following factors -- size (small, medium and
large museums) and innovation status (modernized museums, small
modernized museums). The distribution did not significantly differ in
these analyses. Classifying certain types of displays and accompanying
programs can be inaccurate and the distribution may be influenced by the
most common category of authentic objects. Therefore, we reanalyzed the
data without the authentic objects. Subsequently, the **I**ntellectual
type was the most addressed (34,3%). The **V**isual type was offered
fewer exhibits (25,8%). The **H**aptic-social type (19.3%) and the
**A**uditive type (20.6%) still had a substantial amount of activities
available.

![Representation of preferred communication types in museums](figures/chart2.png)

## Discussion

This paper examined to what extent the visitor's needs based on their
communication type are taken into account in Czech museums. The
presented work is the first original research of this topic in the Czech
Republic. All the communication types were represented, irrespective of
the size of the museum or innovation status. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the
most represented communication type in museums' displays and
communication programs was the **V** type (32,3 %). However, this result
was influenced by including authentic objects, which were the most
common type of display, in the analysis.

Generally, assigning displays and accompanying activities to
communication types has its limitations. Above all, we could not
consider the specific design, dramaturgical concept and particular goal
of each display or program due to data collection via questionnaire.
Also we did not include guided tours, which were considered a
traditional activity which can be reserved on demand, in the survey.
Thus we might have underestimated the activities for the **A** type,
currently at 18,8%. Besides, authentic objects may be hard to understand
because many specimens have lost their primary function (Šobáňová, 2014;
Šobáňová and Lažová, 2016) and visitors have no idea what they are
watching (Šebek, 2010). Visitors can only make superficial observations
regarding size, value or other properties. Such objects are especially
challenging for the **I** or **H** type if touching objects is not
possible, nor detailed information is provided. In such cases, the
object is a source of information only to the advanced visitors or
experts.

The **V**isual and **I**ntellectual types were the most common. However,
it is possible that the observed distribution does not reflect the
visitors' needs, but rather the employees' communication types. Museums
are often managed by **I** types, scientists and experts, and also
creative visual individuals. This may influence the exhibition design.
For example, Vester (1999) described parallel situation, where textbooks
target **I** types and are produced by them. In general, the producers
of information are likely to present the information in the form most
suitable for them.The potential topic for a future research is to
describe the distribution of the individual communication types among
the visitors.

Cost is an important factor to consider. Producing a text display is
cheaper than producing events or high-tech displays, which need special
hardware and software. Text can be created by museum professionals
without co-operating with expensive specialists. Based on our data
visitors read texts only *a bit*, on a scale *not at all--a bit--middle--significantly--dominantly*. They clearly preferred examining
objects and listening to the guide.

Museums may be missing their opportunities by not targeting the
**H**aptic-social type more, especially since school groups and tourists
are the major visitors and expect engaging experience. **H** was the
least represented communication type (17,7 %). However, these types of
displays, activities and special visits based on object stories (Vayne,
2012) are a unique opportunity for museums to be different from other
leisure activities (Polly and Janet, 2013). Furthermore, all the **H**
activities fulfil the current role of museum as described by Camarero et
al. (2014) -- to engage in personal way, and comply with the principles
of visitor as a collaborator or co-creator of the museum life. Also,
designing a museum visit based on co-operation facilitates meeting
strangers or engagement with family or friends beyond the usual. This
leads to personal growth and improves understanding others, which is
important for teenagers and school groups (Simon, 2010).

## Conclusion

This paper examined intersection of museum innovations, design of
exhibition and accompanying programs with visitor's needs represented by
communication types. With deeper analysis and in context of changing
paradigms in museums, it is clear that Czech museums do not fulfill the
needs of the **H**aptic-social and **A**uditive types. The constraints
to meeting these needs should be examined in the future research. In
general, the information environments should take into consideration the
different communication types of the audience and possible favouring of
the producers' own communication type when preparing the display.

## References

Camareroa, C., Garridoa, M. J., & Vicente, E. (2014). Achieving
effective visitor orientation in European museums. Innovation versus
custodial. *Journal Of Cultural Heritage, 16*(2), 228-235.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.culher.2014.05.006

Holman, P. (2010). Dějiny sběratelství a muzejnictví. In M. Buriánková,
A. Komárková, & F. Šebek, *Úvod do muzejní praxe: Učební texty
základního kurzu Školy muzejní propedeutiky* (pp. 21-68). Praha:
Asociace muzeí a galerií České republiky.

Doering, Z. D. (2010). Strangers, Guests, or Clients? Visitor:
Experiences in Museums. *Curator: The Museum Journal, 42*(2), 74-87.
http://doi.org/10.1111/j.2151-6952.1999.tb01132.x

Knight, S. (2009). NLP at Work: The Essence of Excellence (3.rd ed.).
London: NB.

Midgley, C., & Henderson, M. (2005). Museum peace after the Sharp
shooting? [Online]. *The Times*. Retrieved from
https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/museum-peace-after-the-sharp-shooting-dl55cr2m8kx

NIPOS. (2016). Kultura České republiky v číslech: Vybrané údaje ze
statistických šetření. Praha: Národní informační a poradenské středisko
pro kulturu. Retrieved from
http://www.nipos-mk.cz/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/Kultura\_v\_cislech\_2016\_web.pdf

Polly, M. K. -C., & Janet A., K. (2013). Creating Exhibitions:
Collaboration in the Planning, Development, and Design of Innovative
Experiences. USA: Wiley.

Simon, N. (2010). The participatory museum. California: Museum 2.0.

Sklenář, J., Sejkora, J., & Macek, I. (2017). Příroda. *Muzeum: Muzejní
A Vlastivědná Práce, 55*(Zvláštní vydání), 11-17.
http://doi.org/10.1515/mmvp-2017-0030

Šebek, F. (2010). Zpřístupnění sbírek muzeí veřejnosti. In M.
Buriánková, A. Komárková, & F. Šebek, *Úvod do muzejní praxe: Učební
texty základního kurzu Školy muzejní propedeutiky*(pp. 245-283). Praha:
Asociace muzeí a galerií ČR.

Šobáňová, P. (2014). Muzejní expozice jako edukační médium. Olomouc:
Univerzita Palackého v Olomouci.

Šobáňová, P., Lažová, J., & , kol. (2016). Muzeum versus digitální éra.
Olomouc: Univerzita Palackého v Olomouci.

Tanner, R., & , et. al. (2005). A Strategy for the Museum Sector in New
Zealand. Wellington: Museums Aotearoa Te Tari o Nga Whare Taonga o te
Motu, The Museums of New Zealand. Retrieved from
http://www.museumsaotearoa.org.nz/sites/default/files/strategy.pdf

Vayne, J. (2012). Wonderful Things: Learning with Museum Objects (2nd
ed.). UK: MuseumsEtc.

Vester, F. (1999). Myslet, učit se... a zapomínat?. Plzeň: FRAUS.

Žalman, J. (2002). Historie českých, moravských a slezských muzeí a
galerií [Online]. Retrieved November 28, 2018, from
https://www.cesonline.cz/arl-ces/cs/ces-historie/
